\section{Security and Trust}
\label{sec:trust}

One of Tutamen's primary design goals is its ability to support a wide
range of security and trust requirements. It achieves this goal
through its support for both centralized and distributed operation as
well as though its support for a range of authentication mechanisms.

\subsection{Security of Individual Servers}

The Tutamen security model is rooted in the security of the access
control servers. If the operation of these servers is secure, the
operation of the rest of the system may also be secure. Any security
guarantees provided via the access control server are extended to the
storage servers via the signed tokens the AC servers provide.

The security of each individual access control server rests on several
requirements. Failure to uphold these requirements will result in the
failure of an security guarantees provided by the AC server.

\begin{packed_desc}
\item[Certificate Authority Role:] Each access control server acts as
  a CA delegating with issuing and verify client certificates for each
  of its registered clients. Thus, its important that the CA keys
  stored by each AC server remain secure and that each CA server
  faithfully verifies the certificate presented by each client
  connection. Failure in either of these roles will result in a
  failure of any security guarantees provided by the AC server.
\item[Token Issuance and Verification:] Each access control server is
  responsible for verifying the access control requirements bound to
  specific object/permission combinations, issuing signed tokens
  attesting to such verification, and verify the signatures of tokens
  the tokens it receives from clients wishes to operate on access
  control objects. As such, it's important that each AC server keep
  its private token signing key secure and that if faithfully verifies
  both the access control requirements governing specific token
  requests as well as the signatures on all incoming tokens.
%\item[Collision Security:]
\end{packed_desc}

The storage servers must uphold the following security
requirements. Failure to do so results in a failure of the security of
the storage server.

\begin{packed_desc}
\item[Token Verification:] Each storage server must faithfully obtain
  the public token signing key from each AC server delegate to provide
  access control for a given storage object. The storage server must
  then use these keys to verify the signatures on all tokens it
  receives. Assume the token signatures is valid, the storage server
  must faithfully enforce the claims asserted in a given token:
  e.g. by only allowing actions granted by the permission contained in
  the token on the object the token identifies prior to the expiration
  time specified by the token.
\item[Secure Storage:] Each storage server must take steps to store
  user-provided secrets in a secure manner, releasing them only to
  requests accompanied by a valid token granting such release.
\end{packed_desc}

Since the tokens the storage server must verify are provided by the AC
servers, the security of the storage server with respect to a given
collection is dependent on the security of any designated AC servers
associated with said collection. If these AC servers are insecure, the
storage server will not be secure.

The security of Tutamen also, in most cases, depends on the security
of the public CA/PKI system. While AC servers act as local CAs for the
purpose of issuing and verify client certificates, we believe that in
most cases both Tutamen AC and storage servers will rely on public CA
system for obtain server certificates verifying the mapping between
DNS names and the server itself -- as do most public websites. Since
Tutamen storage servers retrieve the correct signing keys form each AC
server on the basis of the AC servers domain name, properly verifying
this name is critical. Similarly, its important for clients to verify
they are talking to the storage and AC servers they intend to, and
verifying the server certificates of each of these servers via the
standard TLS handshake process if thus also critical.

%Todo: cite other TLS security efforts such as CT, etc?

\subsection{Security of Multiple Servers}

Unlike existing secret management systems~\cite{vault, confidant,
  keywhiz}, the Tutamen architecture is capable of remaining secure
even when individual storage or access control servers fail to meet
their security requirements. Such failures may result from physical
server compromise, software bugs, malicious intent or incompetence on
the part of the server operator, or compelled failures.\footnote{For
  example, being forced to turn over stored secrets in response to
  legal or governmental pressure.}

To work around security failure of individual server, Tutamen
applications can leverage Tutamen distributed operation modes. In
these modes, the security of the system as a whole is diffused -- no
longer relying on the security of any specific access control or
storage server in order to keep an applications' secrets secure. As
described in Section~\ref{sec:tutamen:arch:distributed} each
applications can distribute both secrets storage and access control
delegations using $n$ choose $k$ schemes. In such setups, the
difference between n and k represents the degree to which a Tutamen
applications can withstand security failures of the deploys AC and
storage servers. For example, an applications which chooses to shard
its secrets across five storage servers where any three shards are
sufficient to recreate the secret ($n=5$, $k=3$) will continue to
remain secure even if two of the storage servers fail to meet their
security obligations. Similarly, if each secret shard delegates five
possible AC servers, tokens from three of which are required to grant
secrets access, the applications can withstand the failure of two AC
server to uphold their security guarantees. Since the security of each
storage server is dependent on the security of the associated AC
servers, in most cases\footnote{There may be cases where a user
  happens to trust the AC servers more than the storage servers that
  would justify having a larger $k-n$ storage delta than the $k-n$
  access control delta.} there is no security benefit from having a
greater $n-k$ delta for storage servers than for AC servers (although
such a delta may still yield reliability benefits).

\subsection{Trust Model}

Trust in Tutamen follows from the security models of both individual
Tutamen servers and of the distributed Tutamen deployment
architectures. If a Tutamen applications is leveraging only a single
storage and AC server, the applications is placing a high degree of
trust in both servers (and by proxy, the operators of both
servers). This level of trust may be appropriate for some use cases --
e.g. when a user is operating their own Tutamen's servers, but is
often inappropriate in many other cases (e.g. when using third party
hosted Tutamen servers). Fortunately, Tutamen also allows applications
to avoid placing a high degree of trust in any single server by
leveraging multiple servers and picking $k$ and $n$ in a manner that
corresponding to the degree by which server is trusted.

Beyond minimizing the amount of trust placed in each Tutamen's server
by leveraging multiple servers, we also envision economic incentives
helping to ensure Tutamen server trustworthiness. The Tutamen protocol
is standardized and designed to support a range of interchangeable AC
and storage server providers. Such a design allows for the development
of a Tutamen server marketplace where both AC and storage server
providers can compete against each other on the basis of
trustworthiness, features (e.g. what types of authenticates they
support), and cost. In such an ecosystem, Tutamen service providers
who fail to uphold the Tutamen security requirements on their servers
will suffer a negative economic effect, incentivizing such
behavior. Its also likely the storage providers who take additional
steps to protect the secrets they store (e.g. by using system such as
Trusted Platform Modules (TPM) to encrypt the secrets they hold and
harden server security) would be able to command a higher price in the
marketplace,incentivizing such best practices.

Thus, unlike other third-party cloud services where faithfulness to
customer desires and economic incentives are in direct competition
(e.g. as is the case on many ``free'' third part services that depend
on selling user data to advertisers in order to generate revenue),
Tutamen encourages a system where economic incentives are well aligned
with applications security. That fact, coupled with the high degree of
control over third-party trust Tutamen grants to each application by
allowing each application to select both the number of and which
servers the application wishes to use, make Tutamen a failure robust
system in the face to both security and trustworthiness failures. Such
robustness is a critical component if any successful security storage
system.

%\subsection{Discussion}


%%  LocalWords:  Tutamen's Tutamen CAs DNS
