\section{The Tutamen Platform}
\label{sec:tutamen}

The Tutamen secret-storage platform is designed to handle the storage
of arbitrary secret material from a range of applications. In this
section, we present the Tutamen architecture and our reference Tutamen
server implementations. Tutamen expands on Custos~\cite{custos-trios},
our previous secret-storage attempt. It aims to simplify some of the
concepts Custos proposed and to add better support for distributing
secrets across multiple servers.

\subsection{Architecture}
\label{sec:tutamen:arch}

Tutamen has three discrete architectural components:

\begin{packed_desc}
\item[Access Control Servers (ACS):] The systems responsible for
  storing and enforcing secret access control requirements and for
  authenticating requests related to secrets and access control data.
\item[Storage Servers (SS):] The systems responsible for storing
  secrets (or parts of secrets).
\item[Applications:] The systems leveraging the Tutamen platform to
  store and retrieve secrets.
\end{packed_desc}

The bulk of all Tutamen communication occurs between an application
and one or more of each type of server. Inter-server communication is
kept to a minimum to support scalability as the number of servers
grows. All communication in Tutamen takes place via
TLS~\cite{dierks2008} HTTPS connections, and in some cases leverages
mutual-TLS to provide both client and server authentication. Both
access control and storage servers are designed to be used
individually or in sets. For example, an application may store its
secrets on a single storage server and delegate access control to a
single access control server, or the application may shard its secrets
across multiple storage servers and delegate access control to
multiple access control servers, or any combination thereof.

\subsubsection{Access Control Servers}
\label{sec:tutamen:arch:acs}

Tutamen access control servers (ACS) are responsible for
authenticating Tutamen requests and for storing and enforcing all
Tutamen access control requirements. Access control servers expose a
number of core data structures that reflect the manner in which they
operate. Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:acstructs} shows these structures.

\begin{figure}[thb]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{./figs/pdf/datastructures-ac.pdf}
  \caption{Access Control Server Data Structures}
  \label{fig:tutamen:acstructs}
\end{figure}

In order to track and control access from specific actors, the access
control server uses per-actor accounts. These accounts are generally
designed to map to individual end users, but they can be used to track
any entity to which one wishes to assign specific access control
privileges. Accounts thus form the basis of controlling and sharing
access to secrets via Tutamen. Associated with each account are one or
more clients. While accounts represent logically singular entities,
clients represent specific devices controlled by such entities. Each
account has one or more clients. For example, Jane Coworker may have a
single account with three clients: one for her laptop, one for her
desktop, and one for her phone.

Each client is associated with a single x509~\cite{rfc5280} TLS
key/certificate-pair used to authenticate the client to the access
control server. Each access control server acts as a Certificate
Authority (CA) administering these certificates. When a new client is
created it generates a private key and uses this key to generate an
Certificate Signing Request (CSR). This request is then sent to the
access control server where it awaits approval from an existing client
in the account. If approved, the CSR is used to generate a signed
certificate that is sent back to the client for use in future ACS
communication. To facilitate bootstrapping new accounts, client CSRs
are also generated and sent during new account creation. These are
automatically approved and associated with the new account -- i.e.,
the initial client is created in tandem with a new account while all
subsequent clients are approved by previously approved clients. Client
certificates are also designed to be revocable either by other clients
within an account, or by the administrator of a given Tutamen AC
server.\footnote{While not yet fully implemented in our prototype,
  certificate revocation is handled in the typical manner whereby the
  Tutamen AC Server maintains and advertises a signed certificate
  revocation list that is consulted any time a client certificate
  needs to be verified to confirm validity.} Account holders can use
this functionality to transition from old clients to new ones, first
using the old client to approve the CSR for new client, and then using
the new client to revoke the certificate of the old client.

In addition to accounts, the Tutamen access control server also uses
\textit{authenticators}. Authenticators are modular plugins (similar
to PAM~\cite{samar1996}) used to implement contextual access control
requirements~\cite{hulsebosch2005} such as limiting access to specific
times of day or to specific IP addresses. Authenticators can also be
used to implement multi-factor or alternate-band authentication
mechanisms such as confirming approval for a specific request from a
user via text message, or otherwise interfacing with external services
to gain approval.

Accounts and authenticators are combined via verifiers. A verifier
consists of a set of accounts and a set of authenticators. To satisfy
a verifier, a request must originate from a client associated with one
of the member accounts and must satisfy all of the member
authenticators. A verifier may contain no authenticators, in which
case authorization is granted solely on the basis of accounts.

The final component of the Tutamen access control server is the
permissions group. Each permissions group corresponds to a specific
object (identified via the combination of an object type and an object
ID). A permissions group contains one or more permissions (e.g.,
create, read, modify, delete,), each corresponding to a specific class
of actions that can be performed on the corresponding object. Each
permission is associated with a set of verifiers. To be granted a
given permission, a request must satisfy at least one of the verifiers
in this set.\footnote{The combination of OR-ed lists of verifiers,
  each containing an AND-ed list of authenticators allows the
  construction of AND/OR access control trees using the Tutamen access
  control primitives.} In this manner, Tutamen allows the fine-grained
control of each permission for each object on the basis of account
membership, authenticator satisfaction, or a combination of both.

\subsubsection{Storage Servers}
\label{sec:tutamen:arch:ss}

Tutamen storage servers (SS) are responsible for storing all or part
of each Tutamen secret. Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:storagestructs} shows
the core storage server data structures.

\begin{figure}[th]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{./figs/pdf/datastructures-storage.pdf}
  \caption{Storage Server Data Structures}
  \label{fig:tutamen:storagestructs}
\end{figure}

The top-level data structure employed by storage servers is the
\textit{collection}. A collection represents a logical grouping of one
or more secrets (or parts of secrets). Associated with each collection
is a list of one or more access control servers delegated with
enforcing the access control requirements for the collection. Access
control granularity is thus set at the per-collection, not per-secret
level. A collection is also capable of storing user-provided metadata
to aid in the mapping of collections to the objects for which they
store secrets. Each collection stores one or more secrets or secret
shards. These secrets consist of the secret data an application wishes
to store and any associated user-provided metadata.\footnote{How best
  to map secret data to collections is left up to each
  application. This decision is primarily driven by the fact that
  access control is performed on the per-collection level. Thus, if an
  application requires that a set of secrets always have a common set
  of access control requirements, it is efficient to group these
  secrets into a single collection. In cases where each secret
  requires its own access control requirements (e.g., per-file
  encryption keys), it is appropriate for the corresponding
  application to store only a single secret per collection.}

\subsubsection{Access Control Protocol}
\label{sec:tutamen:arch:acp}

Access control servers control access related to both internal (i.e.,
access control server) and external (i.e., storage server) objects by
providing signed authorization tokens in response to valid
requests. Similar to previously proposed distributed and federated
access control systems~\cite{calero2010, leandro2012, neuman1994},
each authorization token grants the bearer a specific permission
related to a specific object. Unlike previous systems, however,
Tutamen is designed to avoid needing to trust any single access
control provider (see \S~\ref{sec:tutamen:arch:distributed}).
Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:systembase} shows the basic communication
involved in the Tutamen access control process.

\begin{figure}[th]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{./figs/pdf/system-base.pdf}
  \caption{Access Control Communication}
  \label{fig:tutamen:systembase}
\end{figure}

Each access control server generates authorization tokens in response
to a client sending an authorization request. Each authorization
request (and each corresponding token) includes two claims binding it
to a specific object: the object type and the object ID. Each token
request also contains a claim that binds it to a specific permission
for the corresponding object. Authorization requests are further bound
to the specific client making the request (authenticated via
mutual-TLS), and to an expiration time after which the token is no
longer valid. Tutamen allows the client to request a specific
expiration time for each token, facilitating the reuse of a single
token to repeat a specific action on a given object without needing to
re-authenticate each time. The access control server considers the
requested expiration time when deciding whether or not to approve an
authentication request, and may return an authorization valid for less
time than originally requested or deny a request for an overly long
duration altogether.

Upon receiving an authorization request from a client, the access
control server looks up the permission group for the corresponding
object (identified via the combination of object type and object ID)
and then loads the set of verifiers corresponding to the requested
permission. The server then traverses each verifier in this set,
checking for client membership in one of the accounts listed in the
verifier and executing any authenticator modules required by the
verifier until it finds (or fails to find) a verifier that is
satisfied by the request. If the server is able to verify compliance
with at least one verifier, it grants the authorization request and
returns a signed authorization token that includes the object type,
object ID, granted permission, and expiration time. The bearer of this
token presents it to either the access control server or a storage
server in conjunction with it's request to act on the corresponding
object.

Other than the bootstrapping operations and the token request
operations themselves, all requests to either storage or access
control servers must be accompanied by a valid token. The receiving
server validates this token using the public signing key of the
associated access control server. For requests to the access control
server itself, this key is available internally. For requests to
storage servers, the storage server downloads the signing key from
each delegated access control server. In this manner, access control
servers are responsible for granting and verifying authorization
requests, signing the corresponding tokens, and verifying tokens
accompanying requests to perform actions on ACS objects (e.g., to
create or modify verifiers or accounts). Storage servers are
responsible only for verifying tokens accompanying requests to perform
actions on storage objects (e.g., to create a collection or read a
secret).

\subsubsection{Distributed Usage}
\label{sec:tutamen:arch:distributed}

Tutamen is designed to be used in both centralized and distributed use
cases. The simplest Tutamen arrangement (e.g., as shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:systembase}) involves leveraging a single
Tutamen access control server and a single storage server. In this
arrangement, a single storage server stores a complete copy of each
secret while a single access control server is charged with enforcing
access to these secrets. While this use case is easy to deploy, it has
two notable downsides. First, it forces the user to place a high
degree of trust in both the operator of the access control server and
the operator of the storage server. Second, it lacks any form of
redundancy. If either the access control server or the storage server
is unavailable, applications will be unable to retrieve any secrets.

A variety of systems have been proposed with the goal of minimizing
trust requirements for cloud infrastructure~\cite{bessani2011,
  kallahalla2003, kubiatowicz2000, mahajan2011,
  wilcox-o'hearn2008}. Tutamen applies similar ``minimal-trust'' goals
to the secret-storage problem by offering support for sharding secret
storage and access control duties across multiple servers. Operating
Tutamen in a distributed manner is largely a task that is pushed down
to the application (or client library). With the exception of offering
the necessary primitives to support such operation, both Tutamen
storage and access control servers are designed to be largely agnostic
as to whether they are being used in a centralized or a sharded
manner. This design has the benefit of avoiding server-side scaling
challenges, allowing the extra overhead required for distributed
operation to be supported by each application that requires it. This
design also helps avoid leaking unnecessary metadata to each Tutamen
server, making it harder for one server to identify (and thus attempt
to attack) the other servers involved in storing a single secret.

\begin{figure}[th]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{./figs/pdf/system-distributed.pdf}
  \caption{Distributed Operation}
  \label{fig:tutamen:systemdistributed}
\end{figure}

Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:systemdistributed} shows the basic layout of a
distributed Tutamen setup. In such a setup, the Tutamen application
first shards its secret using a $(k, n)$ threshold
scheme~\cite{krawczyk1993, shamir1979}, similar to previously proposed
systems~\cite{bessani2011, blaze1996, denning1996}. The application
chooses the value of $n$ based on the number of storage servers it
wishes to use. The value of $k$ is then chosen to control how many of
the servers must be available to retrieve the secret, or inversely,
how many server operators must collude to access a user's secret. The
application then pushes each shard to the $n$ storage servers. If the
application is merely concerned about storage redundancy, or about its
ability to trust a storage server operator, it can delegate the access
control for each secret shard to a single access control server. To
retrieve such a secret the application would request the necessary
token from the access control server and include it in its request to
each storage server for their respective shard of the secret. When the
application receives a response from $k$ of the storage servers, it is
able to reconstruct the original secret.

In most cases, however, the application will also wish to protect
itself against access control server trust and reliability
failures. This is accomplished via storage server support for the
specification of two pieces of metadata corresponding to each stored
collection: a set of AC servers approved to provide access control
tokens for the collection and a minimum number of servers from which
valid tokens must be received. These parameters form the basis of a
novel, yet simple, $(k, n)$ threshold scheme for access control
servers -- e.g., a collection may delegate a list of $n$ access
control servers from which an application must acquire at least $k$
valid tokens to gain access. Thus, if the user does not wish to trust
a single access control server, they may require tokens from at least
$k$ different AC servers to access the data stored in a given
collection. Likewise, if the application wishes to withstand the
failure of one or more AC servers, it can specify $n$ possible AC
servers where $n > k$.

To facilitate ease of management when operating in a distributed
fashion, Tutamen supports allowing applications to request use of
specific, randomly-generated UUIDs~\cite{leach2005} for each object at
creation time. This allows clients to use the same object ID across
multiple servers, alleviating the burden of maintaining a mapping
between object IDs and the servers to which they correspond. Using the
same object IDs across multiple servers also allows for more efficient
token management -- e.g., if an application uses the same collection
ID on three separate storage servers, all of which delegate a common
set of access control servers, it is possible (and desirable) for the
application to use a single token on all three servers.\footnote{The
  ability to request specific object IDs does have a downside: it
  opens Tutamen up to a possible denial-of-service (DoS) attack where
  an attacker attempts to request the object IDs they know another
  application wishes to use for themselves. Since each server may only
  use each object ID once, the first application to request a given
  UUID gets it. Thus, if an adversary knew which object IDs a given
  application planned to use, they could request these object IDs on a
  given access control server for themselves, depriving the original
  application of the ability to use those servers with that ID. At
  worst, however, this attack posses an inconvenience to applications,
  since an application is welcome to simply generate a new UUID for
  use with each object it stores instead.}

\subsection{Usage Example}

To illustrate the interaction of the various components of the Tutamen
platform, we present an example of the steps taken by an application
to store and then retrieve a secret via Tutamen. In this example, we
assume the application is using three storage servers and two access
control servers as shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:systemdistributed}. We also assume the
application has already bootstrapped an account and an associated
client.

\begin{figure}[th]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{./figs/pdf/store-secret.pdf}
  \caption{Storing a New Secret}
  \label{fig:tutamen:storesecret}
\end{figure}

Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:storesecret} shows the steps required to
create a new collection and store a secret within it. We assume the
application has already sharded the secret into three parts -- one per
server.\footnote{Omitted from this diagram is the process of creating
  verifiers and permissions groups for the collection verifier
  itself. These objects are necessary to control who can read, modify,
  or delete the corresponding verifier after creation. The process for
  creating such objects is similar to the process of creating the
  collection-related verifier and permissions. To avoid the infinite
  recursion of needing verifiers for each verifier, it is possible for
  a verifier to be associated with a permissions group in which it is
  itself a member (i.e., a verifier can enforce its own access control
  specification).} As shown, the client starts by setting up the
necessary access control structures (i.e., a new verifier and a
corresponding set of collection permissions).\footnote{Note that it is
  critical that the client creates the permission set corresponding to
  the planned collection UUID prior to creating the collection
  itself. Failure to do so risks allowing another actor to ``hijack''
  the collection by requesting the permission set corresponding to the
  new collection's UUID before the original requester. As with other
  Tutamen operations, the first person to request an object
  corresponding to a given UUID gets it. Thus, a client should only
  create a collection using a given UUID after they have properly
  secured the corresponding permissions for the UUID in question on
  each AC server they wish to utilize.} Once the AC structures have
been created, the client creates the storage data structures: first a
new collection, than a secret within the collection. Prior to each
operation, the client must also request a token granting the necessary
permission from the AC server, meaning that about half the
interactions in the secret creation process are token requests.

\begin{figure}[th]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{./figs/pdf/fetch-secret.pdf}
  \caption{Retrieving an Existing Secret (w/ SMS Auth)}
  \label{fig:tutamen:fetchsecret}
\end{figure}

Figure~\ref{fig:tutamen:fetchsecret} shows the steps required to
retrieve an existing secret. This diagram also assumes that the secret
in question has an SMS (i.e. text message) authenticator associated
with it, requiring a user to provide a response to an SMS challenge in
order to approve access to the secret. Compared to the process of
storing a new secret, retrieving a secret is much simpler since it is
not necessary to create the slew of new access control objects
required when creating a new collection. Ignoring any round trips
required by individual authenticator modules (e.g., the SMS
verification), secret retrieval required only a single round trip to
each server: one to each AC server to retrieve a token and one to each
storage server to retrieve each shard of the secret. In Tutamen,
secret retrieval is thus less expensive than secret storage. We
foresee most secret-related workloads requiring many reads of a single
stored secret, so optimizing the system for reads over writes seems
appropriate.

\subsection{Implementation}

In order to demonstrate and test the Tutamen platform, we have created
reference implementations for the storage server, access control
server, and several client libraries. Our Tutamen server
implementation exposes a RESTful interface~\cite{fielding2000} for
both the access control and storage server APIs. This interface
accepts and responds using JSON~\cite{json} messages over the HTTPS
protocol. The full access control server API specification and
reference implementation are available
at~\cite{src-tutamen-apiaccesscontrol}. Likewise, the storage server
API specification and implementation can be found
at~\cite{src-tutamen-apistorage}. The prototype servers are written in
Python3 using the Flask web framework~\cite{python-flask}. Both
servers are served via WSGI~\cite{pep3333} using the Apache HTTP
Server~\cite{apache} for TLS termination and client-certificate
verification. Both Tutamen servers rely on a shared
\texttt{pytutamen-server}~\cite{src-tutamen-pytutamenserver} Python
library for the implementation of their core logic. This library
leverages the Redis~\cite{redis} key-value store for persistent
storage. Our Tutamen implementation adopts the JSON Web Signature
(JWS)~\cite{rfc7515} and JSON Web Token (JWT)~\cite{rfc7519}
specifications for exchanging cryptographically authenticated tokens
between Tutamen applications, access control servers, and storage
servers. We leverage the pyjwt~\cite{pyjwt} library for JWS and JWT
support. These tokens are then attached to subsequent requests using a
custom HTTP header field.

The access control servers expose a pluggable authenticator interface
through which end users and other developers may add custom
authentication functionality. This interface is primarily designed to
allow users to specify authentication checks beyond the client
certificate authentication automatically performed on every
request. As an example, we have implemented an authenticator module
that allows users to approve Tutamen token requests via SMS text
message using the Twilio~\cite{twilio} messaging platform. We also
envision authenticator modules for enforcing access control rules such
as only allowing requests during certain times of day or from specific
network addresses. Each authenticator plugin is provided with both a
set of per-instance configuration data (e.g., to whom an SMS message
gets sent for approval) and all of the details of a specific token
request (e.g., IDs and metadata associated with the requesting account
and client, from which information such as originating IP address or
time of day can be extracted).

In addition to the server and authenticator implementations, we have
also created reference Tutamen client libraries for both
Python~\cite{src-tutamen-pytutamen} and
Go~\cite{src-tutamen-go}. Using the Python client library, we have
created a Tutamen CLI application through which users may directly
store and retrieve secrets and control secret sharing and access
control rules~\cite{src-tutamen-cli}. The CLI is useful for managing
Tutamen objects even in cases where other applications (see
Section~\ref{sec:apps}) are set up to interface directly with the
Tutamen platform. In this manner, it is not necessary for every
Tutamen application to implement all Tutamen management
functionality. Instead, an application might leverage only the
necessary Tutamen commands to perform secret-storage and retrieval,
leaving the task of managing the access control of Tutamen-stored
secrets to the CLI or to another dedicated management application.

%%  Localwords:  Tutamen ACS HTTPS CSR CSRs Authenticators verifiers
%%  LocalWords:  authenticators authenticator Custos
%%  LocalWords:  DoS SMS Redis AGPLv JWS JWT pyjwt pytutamen LGPLv
%%  LocalWords:  Twilio tutamen Auth
